---
layout: feature-doc
title:  "Swipe pad"
date:   2016-02-24 00:31:01 +0000
date_updated : 2016-01-24 00:31:02 +0000
categories: controller
---
## Introduction

The navigation structure allows your to set defined areas within your application that can be controlled via the controller. This is achieved is by adding a `data-cwc-navgroup='*'` data attribute to your HTML markup allowing the **cwc** object to register the group. The `*` should represented the index of the navigation group starting from zero.

## Building the D-pad

A basic D-pad can be created with minimal markup, Add the attribute `data-cwc-controller="d-pad"` to your HTML elements followed by `data-cwc-cbtn="up"` to represent a trigger button.

Out of the box, the D-pad is designed to work simultaneously with the navigation interface [link] when installed on the display.

{% highlight html linenos %}
  <section data-cwc-controller="d-pad"  >
      <span data-cwc-cbtn="up" ></span>
      <span data-cwc-cbtn="right" ></span>
      <span data-cwc-cbtn="down" ></span>
      <span data-cwc-cbtn="left" ></span>
      <span data-cwc-cbtn="enter" ></span>
  </section>
{% endhighlight %}

>Out of the box, the D-pad is designed to work simultaneously with the navigation interface [link] when installed on the display.

## Styling
Out of the box, the D-pad is designed to work simultaneously with the navigation interface [link] when installed on the display.

## Undestanding the Javascript

In order to register a D-Pad you must call the D-pad initiator object within the **cwc** framework. As the D-pad is designed to work with the navigation interface this will try to work alongside that, unless given call back methods for each of the button.

{% highlight javascript linenos %}
window.onload = function() {
  var SwipePad = new cwc.SwipePad({
  });

  navigation.invoke_dir('up', function( tracking ){
    /* -- Logic here -- */
  });

  navigation.invoke_dir('down', function( tracking ){
    /* -- Logic here -- */
  });

  navigation.invoke_dir('enter', function( tracking ){
    /* -- Logic here -- */
  });

};
{% endhighlight %}

>If no callback methord are provided then the D-pad will try to work with the main screne.
